(lyn)


We'll be focusing on both the older Raspberry Pi B and the new Raspberry Pi, model B+, for the purposes of this course
We'll be using Raspbian OS with VNC server already installed so that it will launch at boot up.
make sure that we've got SSH and our localization set up properly.

(With Jessie it's very simple. You just go down to Preferences, you go to Raspberry Pi configuration. 
What you're going to do is go to Interfaces. For SSH, you're going to enable it just by clicking here and localization 
you can just click here and go to Time Zone, and under Time Zone pick whatever time zone you happen to be in.
As soon as you do and say okay, you're ready to go. It's a lot easier than using sudo Raspi-config and it's done. It's very
important that you have your time zone set properly or the hour, minute, seconds that you're going to get will not make sense.)
 If you don't set your localization, it'll set you up at Greenwich Mean Time which is what you don't want to have as your default.
 
 
 
Required:
A power relay, 
a power bar,
motion detector, and
a Pi cam.


Overview of  the alarm project:
- There are six basic features for your Raspberry Pi alarm system:
video streaming,
wireless motion detector, 
solid state relay, 
alarm picture storage by DATE, 
free remote access to your Pi alarm from anywhere in the world, and free SMS to your cell phone.

Video streaming, you can use it as a baby monitor while you're in your home using your local area network. 
When you're outside your home you can use the wide area network and use it as a Nanny cam. 

Wireless motion detector allows you placement of your Raspberry Pi system anywhere that you have access to WiFi, that means
in any room, office, anywhere that you have WiFi you have access to your Raspberry Pi alarm system.

Solid state relay allows you to turn on your lights when motion is detected, 
and this can be regular lighting if you want to use the Pi camera, or
if you want to use night vision, you can use infrared lights for your Pi NoIR camera. 

 Alarm picture storage by DATE, when the alarm is triggered, you can store pictures based on the date that they were taken. 
 You have free remote access to your Pi alarm from anywhere in the world using a free system called www.Developer.weaved.com 
 allows you free access to VNC, SSH, and WebIOPi, and VNC allows you remote control with screen sharing.
 
 SSH we're going to be using a little differently. We're going to be using it with FTP to allow you to transfer file, picture 
 directories from your Raspberry Pi to any remote computer anywhere in the world, and if you wish, you can also use FTP to
 transfers files from a remote computer to your Raspberry Pi. 
 
  We're going to be using WebIOPi to turn on and off your security system through any browser on any cell phone, tablet, 
  or computer system. To top it all off, we have the ability to send ourselves free SMS messages to your cell phone 
  when the alarm triggers using a free service called www.textbelt.com
  
  
  POWER SUPPLY:
You'll want to be sure to get a 5 to 5.4 volt micro USB connector and 1.2 to 2.5 amps. In this case, bigger is better.
Phone chargers work, but be sure to get a good one. Some cheaper chargers don't deliver the voltage or amperage that they say
that they will.( the voltage will drop to 4.8 volts or less when the current draw is two amps. This may cause the Raspberry Pi 
to reset since the voltage is too low to properly keep the Pi running.)
(Notably, the Wi-Fi connector will draw a lot of current. The wire gauge should be at least 20 gauge to safely carry two amps.
 The lower the wire gauge number, the greater the amount of current it can carry. Some cheap power supplies can have 30 gauge
 wire that will melt if you try to put two amps through it)
 
 Select a USB Wi-Fi adapter:
  Communicating with your Raspberry Pi using an Ethernet connector means that you have to have it located close to your router.
 Wi-Fi adapter allows you to place your Raspberry Pi wherever you can receive Wi-Fi signals. Depending on the strength of the
 signals from your wireless router will determine if you need a Wi-Fi dongle with or without an antenna. You want to get a Wi-
Fi connector that works right away without having to find specialized drivers if they exist at all. Make sure it has out-of-
the-box support for Raspbian Wheezy or the latest, Raspbian Jessie. 
When your Raspberry Pi is a long distance from your router or if later you will be putting your Raspberry Pi 
into an enclosure, you may need an antenna.
Make sure your Wi-Fi dongle has the same protocol as your wireless router.
  
 Select a Raspberry Pi camera:
 - The Raspberry Pi Camera will be used to do video streaming as well as taking pictures of people that enter your home. 
You'll be able to stream video to any web-based systems, such as a smart phone, personal computer, tablet etc.
- The maximum picture resolution will be 5 megapixels but you can choose other resolutions such as 640x480 or 320x240 etc.
 through software. 
- There are three different cameras that can be connected to your Raspberry Pi's custom CSI bus and each has
 a maximum resolution of 5 megapixels.
- The Raspberry Pi Camera is used for shooting in normal lighting conditions and has a short ribbon cable. The Raspberry Pi No
 Infrared or NoIR Camera is the same as a Pi Camera board but has NoIR, in other words No Infrared filter. It's used for night
 vision use and you need to have an extra source of infrared illumination and it's not good for normal lighting conditions and
 again, it has a short ribbon cable. The spy camera is used for shooting in normal lighting conditions, it's much smaller than
 the Pi camera board and it's easier to conceal and it does come with an 11.4 inch cable.
- Now, if you do need extra cables for the Raspberry Pi Camera or the Pi NoIR Camera, the Pi Camera and Pi NoIR Cameras come with short default cables but they can be replaced by longer cables and here are your choices, eight inch, 12 inch, 18 inch and 24
 inch.

Select a camera mount or enclosure:
- Raspberry Pi camera cables are very flexible and can flop around and do damage to the camera if not secured. To secure the
 camera, you can either get a camera mount or camera enclosure. These are required by both the Pi camera and Pi NoIR camera.
 However, because the spy cam's small size, it can easily be stuck to just about any surface. Cheapest solution for the Pi
 camera boards is the camera mount. The camera enclosure is more expensive but might give you a more finished look to your
 project.

Select a Pi Cobbler:
- The Pi Cobbler is a small printed circuit board that plugs easily into a standard breadboard.
 There are two types of Pi Cobbler, 
    - a 26-pin version that works with older Raspberry Pis that have 26-pin GPIOs or general purpose input output and
    - a 40-pin version which works with the newer Raspberry Pis that have 40-pin GPIOs. 
Even if you have a newer Raspberry Pi that has 40 GPIO pins, we will be using a 26-pin Pi Cobbler. We can get a reduction cable that goes from the 40 GPIO pins to the 26-pin Pi Cobbler.

Then we will simply connect the 26-pin Cobbler to the reduction cable. 
There are a couple of reasons for using the 26-pin Pi Cobbler. 
 - The first is that the 40-pin Pi Cobbler takes up a lot of room
 on your breadboard.
 - The second reason is that after experimenting with things hooked up to your breadboard, we will eventually want to have a printed circuit board version of your design. 

Later we will use a 26-pin connector to a good quality printed circuit board to make our design more secure. 
The following items are sold exclusively from adafruit.com, and might be used in the follow-up video.
So, no need to concern yourselves with these at this point.


Select a breadboard:
- The breadboard that you select should not be too big or too small. If it's too small, then you might not have enough room to
 connect up what you need for experimentation. If you choose a breadboard that is too big, then it becomes expensive, and you
 may only use a portion of it, and the rest will be wasted. For the purposes of this video, I'm going to suggest the following
 breadboard. It's not too small, and will allow you to not only hook up things that are required by this video, but will also
 allow you to hook up other things that you may wish to experiment with.


Select an enclosure for the Pi:
- In closure, we'll protect your Raspberry Pi as well as allow you to mount it securely to a wall. There are two sizes of
enclosures and you have to pick the one specific to your Pi. Eclosures for Raspberry Pis with 26-pin GPIO headers such as the
Raspberry Pi B tend to be much pricier than the 40-pin versions. Enclosures for Raspberry Pis with 40-pin GPIO headers such 
as Raspberry Pi B plus and Raspberry Pi 2 tend to be a little bit cheaper.

- Any enclosure that you buy should allow the GPIO and Pi cam cables to easily be connected. The second video in this series 
will show you how to add and program a touchscreen display if you only want a cheap rudimentary version of the alarm 
system, without a touchscreen then you only have to find an enclosure that you like that will pitch your particular 26 or
40-pin Raspberry Pi. If you're thinking of adding a touchscreen display at some point, then you will need to take this into 
consideration when you're selecting your enclosure.

- Touschscreens are made to work with either 26-pin versions or 40-pin versions of the Raspberry Pi. Enclosures with a 
removable lid or no lid are preferable so that the lid can be removed when the touchscreen is connected to the Raspberry Pi.
In 2015 the Raspberry Pi Foundation brought out an incredible 7-inch display. The display has been designed to work with only 
the newer 40-pin GPIO versions of the Raspberry Pi. The great thing about this new 7-inch display is that the newer 
Raspberry Pis mount on the back of the display.

- This means that you don't need a conventional enclosure for the Raspberry Pi. You would instead need an enclosure for the
display and any electronics that you choose to mount on the back of the display with the Raspberry Pi. Having said all 
this, until you decide to add a display the enclosures are relatively cheap and do provide protection for the Raspberry Pi.


Select a motion detector:
- There are two basic kinds of motion detectors, wired and wireless. For a wired motion detector, you have to run two wires to
 the receiving unit. You can easily determine with a volt meter when motion is being detected. However, running two wires
 especially over longer distances is not always desirable. The wireless motion detector can wirelessly transmit to the
 receiver without the need of wires. Even though there are a lot of wireless motion detectors out there, the Skylink wireless
 motion detector receiver pair is not only very good value for the money, but is also easy to connect its receiver to the
 Raspberry Pi GPIO pins.

- The receiver module can work with up to four motion detectors, any one of which can trigger an alarm condition. For our
 purposes, we will simply use one motion detector with the receiver module, even though you can later add up to three more
 motion detectors if you wish. Please note, however, (laughs) that each motion detector is more expensive than the receiver
 unit. For the purposes of this project, we will open up the receiver module and solder two wires that will then be connected
 to the breadboard. We will then connect wires from the breadboard to the GPIO of the Raspberry Pi.

- Therefore, you will need a soldering iron, solder, and some 22 gauge wires. When the connections are completed, you will see
 that when motion is not detected, the voltage going to the GPIO pin will be a steady 3.3 volts. When motion is detected, you
 will see the GPIO pin continually change from 3.3 volts to ground then back to 3.3 volts. Since the Raspberry Pi GPIO pins
 work with 3.3 volts and ground, this is perfect for what we need.

- The other pin connected from the receiver is reference brown pin. Because we will be connecting our wires across the LED,the
 rate of voltage change between the 3.3 volts and ground is exactly the same rate at which the LED is flashing. There are a
 lot of good vendors for this device. The best way to find the cheapest one is to use Google and search for the motion
 detector by typing in Skylink HA434RTL and to get the manual, Skylink HA434RTL manual.

- And the device itself should come with an adapter, ball head joint, indoor/outdoor motion sensor, Household Alert long range
 receiver, and two screws for mounting the ball head to the wall.


Optional accessories:
- Solid state relay allow you to power on lights that you've connected to a power bar. This may be necessary if you want
 lights to automatically come on when somebody enters. If it is dark when someone enters, you will not be able to take
 pictures with the PI Cam. Even with the PI Cam NoIR, you will still need IR lighting to come on if you wish to take pictures
 in a darken room. You could connect regular or infrared lights into a power bar, then turn on and off the power bar using the
 solid state relay. We will be removing some of the plastic coating on a power bar to attach the solid state relay.

- Adding a solid state relay to a power bar can be dangerous if not done properly, and should only be attempted by someone
 that has dealt with proper electrical wiring practices. I will not assume any responsibility for any
 injuries that happens from hooking up the solid state relay or any other devices in this project. Solid state
 relays have either 120 volt or 240 volt output. Even though a 120 volt or 240 volt solid state relay can be used with 120
 volt North American systems, 120 volt solid state relay cannot be used when the power outlets use 240 volts, such as those in
 Europe.

- The last thing to make sure of is the input voltage. Since a Raspberry Pi can output only 3.3 volts, you have to make sure
 that whatever solid state relay you purchase will have a minimum input voltage of three volts. The lowest a vendor and part
 number for solid state relays that is good for North America and Europe power outlets and has the following specs: Trigger
 current 7.5 milliamps for 12 volts, control voltage 24 to 380 volts AC, input voltage three to 32 volts DC, and zero cross.
 
 





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
