 
 OVERVIEW OF REMOTE ACCESS: USING WEAVED
 Let's now deal with the extra software we will need while we're waiting for our parts to arrive. As long as you stay at 
 home, you can access your Raspberry Pi and then stay connected to it using TightVNC server on your local area network. 
 Once you step out of your door, you will no longer be able to connect to your Raspberry Pi remotely using TightVNC server.
 When you want access to your home from outside your home, you're using the wide area network. 
 
 For people that have a commercial burglar alarm system, monitoring inside the home is free. It's when they step out of
 their home that they are charged to get access to their monitoring devices.
 In fact, some systems that are sold have it built in that they have to use a certain monitoring system.
 For example, Interlogix, which is General Electric Burglar Alarm Systems have to use Alarm.com for external monitoring.
 Alarm.com will charge a monthly fee to let you securely connect to your local area network from the wide area network.
 
 Since we are building our own alarm system, we're not tied to any company for monitoring our devices from outside our home.
 There is a company called Weaved.com that provides secure wide area network to local area network connection for the 
 Raspberry Pi as well as other devices.
 
Their personal plan provides 10 remote services, automatic service provisioning,
 and free connection for 30 minutes at a time. For remote uploading security pictures and other simple tasks, this is more 
 than adequate for our needs and free is always a good price. When you have everything set up, you will get to this login
 screen. It will ask you to enter your first and last name and your email address. Then they will send a verification code
 to your email. Once you have this, you're ready to continue.
 
 
 Configure VNC, SSH, and WebIOPi services for Weaved
 - As time goes on, improvements get made. In this case, Raspbian Wheezy has now been updated to Raspbian Jessie. 
 Other upgrades will be made as time goes on to improve the experience you have with Raspberry Pi.
 However, sometimes these changes can have an impact on past procedures. In this case, the procedure to make VNC server
 automatically start up has changed. So if you have Raspbian Jessie, you will need to follow the procedure as indicated 
 on this page. If you've already done the install of Raspbian Jessie, you really have to start at step three here, create
 a new et cetera system d system VNC servers.
 
 You will do a select all, and let's take a look and see how we go about doing that on the Raspberry Pi. Okay, now 
 that we're at step three, we're going to create a new file /etc/systemd/system/vncserver@.service by just typing in 
 $sudo nano /etc/systemd/system /vncserver@.service. 
What we want to do is select all of the code that's in https://www.raspberrypi.org/forums/viewtopic.php?t=123457, just 
right mouse click and say Copy.

Switch back to the nano editor here. Right mouse click and do Paste. Once all this stuff is in, we're just going to 
do a Control O Enter Control X to get back, and then we're going to continue on to the next step. So as we go down here, the 
next step is to actually run it. And to that, we're just going to select all of this again. Again, we're just going to right 
mouse click and Copy. We're going to go back to our shell here, right mouse click, and we're going to do Paste.

Follow step 5 from that page. paste the command.
and get our prompt back. At this point, it says we have to do a reboot. 
So to reboot, we're just going to say $shutdown - r now. And we'll pick it up when it reboots.
At this point, the Raspberry Pi should have rebooted, so let's go to Connect to Server and let's hit Connect.

Okay, once it's connected, what we're going to see is our cursor has changed. It's no longer a cursor, it's a cursor with
a crosshair. That's a bit of a problem. So here's how we fix this problem. It's very simple. We just go into our shell, 
and what we're going to see there is we're going to change directory into our home directory, and we can do a pwd for 
print working directory to make sure we're in the right directory. 
$ls -la
cd .vnc
and when we go there, we're going to see a number of files in here, and the one that we have to change here is xstartup.
$sudo nano xstartup
At the end of "solid gray" we have to put in "-cursor _name space left_ptr".
And when we do a Control O and a Control X and reboot, that problem should have gone away. 
$sudo shutdown - r now.

 Raspberry Pi forms are one of the best ways to deal with changes to past procedures. 
 So especially if you have Raspbian Jessie, this is something you're definitely going to have to do. 
 Right now I'm running VNC, which allows me to connect to the Raspberry Pi from a remote computer, which is what we're 
 seeing here. VNC is a great way to talk to Raspberry Pi from another computer while you're in your own home on your own 
 local area network.

But when we walk outside the door, we no longer have access to our local area network or the Raspberry Pi. 
When we step outside our door, we need to connect to the wide area network that then has to connect to our local area network.
There is a site called developer.weaved.com that provides access from the wide area network to your local area network for
free for 30 minutes at a time. This service will provide this access for the Raspberry Pi as well as other devices such 
as Beagle Bone, and the site deals with IOT or Internet of Things.

Now what I've currently set up in here is I've got Raspberry Pi here for the Raspberry Pi B. I've got Raspberry Pi Bplus 
here, but this is on the Raspbian Wheezy system here. What we want to do is have something set up for Raspbian Jessie. 
We're going to have to add services to our account here. And to do that, we're going to have to be connected to the
Raspberry Pi. So let's go back to that screen now.
Now one of the things we want to do is we want to now go to the Downloads section. And under Downloads, it's going to
give us the ability to actually set up for Raspbian Jessie. And that's what we want to do next. Now these are all the
other services that we looked at earlier. So we're just going to select Raspberry Pi. 

(www.weaved.com/installing-weaved-raspberry-pi-raspbian-os)
Now as we can see here, these are the installation instructions for Raspberry Pi. And the screen is going to be a little bit slow, but let's scroll down here.

Okay, so if we scroll down to the bottom here of this part, we now have the instructions. From a terminal window on your 
internet connected Raspberry Pi, type the following commands. So we're just going to select the entire line here and 
we're going to then Copy. And then we're going to open up our window here. And let's make sure that we're in our Pi directory. 
So we're going to say cd, just to be sure, print working directory to make sure we're here. Then we're going to right mouse 
click and we're going to Paste.
$sudo apt-get update
$sudo apt-get install weavedconnectd //install our Weaved services.

Now that it's finished, we can continue on with the next part of the procedure, which is saying 
$sudo weavedinstaller. 
And it's going to check your network for compatibility.

Fortunately for us, our network is compatible. So we're going to do option one, sign into your existing Weaved account.
And again, you're going to have to type in your email and your password. And it's then going to drop us to a main menu. 
And it's going to allow us to then attach or reinstall Weaved to a Service. So we're going to choose option one. And here
we have five options. Of these options, we're going to do SSH, we're going to do VNC, and we're going to do a Custom (TCP).

So let's do the SSH first. Let's do number one. Would you like to continue with the default port assignment, and we're going
to select Y for yes. And at this point, it says enter a name for this Service Attachment. Now I'm going to call it 
Rpi_Bplus _Jesse, and I'm going to also include SSH because it's my Raspberry Pi Bplus running Raspbian Jessie, and
I'm installing SSH for secure shell.


Right now it's registering it. It's going to put us back to the main menu. Again, we want to add one more. This time we're 
going to do VNC. We're going to say yes. And again, Rpi_Bplus _Jesse is our operating system. And again, this is VNC. And
again, it will register the service.

And hopefully third time is the charm. The last thing to do is number two. Number two is going to be where we're setting
up Web IOpi. And we'll say no for this for the default. Please enter your desired port will be 8000. We'll call this
RPi_Bplus _Jesse _WebIOPi.
And at this point, we should be able to exit.

Patch WebIOPi for Raspberry Pi B+ and 2:
(github doublebind/raspi)
- Raspi from doublebind gives us a patch that we need to make the WebIOPi utility work both on the Raspberry Pi 2 and 
the Raspberry Pi B+. WebIOPi will work on the Raspberry Pi B but it will not work on the newer ones without this patch
installed. Now, if we are on this site and we hit the spacebar, then we just hit a couple up arrows, what we're going to
do is we're going to find all the information. So this is the patch for Raspberry Pi B+ and Pi 2, and all we have to 
do is actually follow through this, and again, we're just going to copy and paste this into our shell.

 it's going to get WebIOPi. Once it's in, we're then going to grab the next one which is going to do a tape archive, and
we're just going to copy. Go back here and paste. Hit Enter.

When that's done, we're going to change directory. Now we could do it by hand but it's a lot easier to just copy and paste.
We're just going to copy that. Back into here. Paste it. And then we just have to do a couple more lines and we're pretty
much ready to go. So let's take a look at the next one. We're going to get the patch. We're going to copy it, paste it into 
here.


Do you want to access WebIOPi over the Internet? We're going to say Y for yes and 
we're going to say again yes and we're going to say, would you like to continue with the default port assignment, 
 we're going to say yes. Since we've already set 
up the service, we can actually control Ctrl C out and get back to the prompt. Now there's still more to do. If we go back
to the webpage here, one of the things we're going to see is how to start WebIOPi, and it says Raspian version of NOOBS later
than 1.4.2 and that definitely takes into account Jessie, so we're going to have to add these extra lines to our prompt, and 
we're just going to copy and paste as we've done before, and continue on with the last part of the things we need to do to 
make this work perfectly.

We change directory and we have to do a sudo wget. Let's copy and paste that. And go on to the next step, so we've done this 
sudo. Go back and do sudo systemctl start webiopi, so we can start up this service. And finally, we're going to enable WebIOPi. So at this point, our patch is complete, which means WebIOPi will work.

It will work properly. It will boot up properly. And it will work now on Raspberry PI 2s, B+s, and it always has worked
up to this point with Raspberry Pi B















 
