/*



- need to be good at linux bash scripts

The easiest way to transfer files to your Raspberry Pi is with a flash drive. Copy it to your drive from pc
and connect it your Pi by  inserting it into one of the USB ports and it will show up on your desktop. It'll ask you 
if you want to open it up in the file manager, which is exactly what we want to do, and you'll notice that the flash
drive shows up under /media, FLASH DRIVE.


Useful Websites:
www.raspberrypi.org (official)

elinux.org/RPi_Hub 
(is a clearinghouse of information about the version of Linux running on Raspberry Pi)
(There is information about the General Purpose Input/Output pins, also known as GPIO, Raspbian Wheezy, a version of
Linux designed for the Raspberry Pi, and some sample projects. You'll also find information about other embedded systems
such as the MinnowBoard and BeagleBoard. Adafruit sells the Raspberry Pi as well as power supplies, motor control boards
and experimentation kits.)

parkFun.com 
sells electronic kits as well as the Raspberry Pi and peripherals.
If you're buying odd electronic parts or even normal electronics parts, SparkFun is a great place to look.

adafruit.com

Safety Handling:
The Raspberry Pi is a circuit board. It's not protected and is fragile compared to a normal desktop computer. Be sure to
ground yourself to remove static electricity. You can do this simply by touching a metal surface. 
**Don't place the Raspberry  Pi on metal surfaces.** 
If you lay it on a metal surface, there is a good chance you may short out some of the electronics 
underneath or on top of the board. Be careful with the pins and the electronic components on the board. They are fragile and
will snap off, and they're often mishandled.

**Be especially careful when plugging and unplugging the power, USB, and other connectors and be especially careful not to
short out those gold GPIO pins on the very back of the board.**
You may want to build or buy a case to protect your investment.
Do a quick web search for Raspberry Pi enclosures, and you'll discover an entire community dedicated to creating weird and
wonderful custom boxes for these little computers. If you're fortunate, you may have access to a 3D printer.

Understanding the Pi Family! :)
When you first decide to purchase a Raspberry Pi, you'll find it confusing array of Raspberry Pi versions. In reality the're only a couple of features to consider. 
1. Availability:
2. Onboard memory (Early model As only had 256 megabytes of on board memory. The Raspberry Pi 3 now has four times that amount.)

One of the advantages of the Raspberry Pi, over other micro controllers, is it's built in Ethernet port. 
(if you're buying a used Raspberry Pi model A or A plus, you wont get Ethernet on those two models.)

Speed din't used to a factor, since all Raspberry Pi were sensely the same. However the Raspberry Pi model 3 has increased the
clock spin with four Cores running at 1.2 gigahertz. For some applications this may make a difference.

A recent change, only present on a Raspberry Pi model 3 is the addition of built in wireless and Bluetooth support. 
In the past both of these could be accomplished but required a USB adapter.

At this time I recommend the Raspberry Pi model 3 for general experimentation. It's fast, reasonably priced, the GPIO is easy
to access, and the board has wireless and Bluetooth built in.

Accessories:
- Power
- SDCable
- Ethernet
- Kbd and mouse
- HDMI cable
- monitor
(all are easy to obtain, also available in 2nd hand stores)
(https://github.com/iitjee/SteppinsHardware/blob/master/Raspberry%20Pi/RaspberryPiShopping%20List.pdf)

The Raspberry Pi can be run without a monitor. But not a good way to begin with
Monitors: VGA, HDMI, VNC
Let's talk about VGA first. The original model A and B Raspberry Pi supplied video through an RCA composite jack using an
RCA standard plug. (yellow wire) (tv wala)

Model A and B audio comes from a standard audio check.  Model A Plus B Plus and model 2 still have composite video or VGA.
But it comes out of the audio jack. This is called Tip Ring Ring Sleeve. And you'll need a cable to do this. Search 
for TRRS to RCA 3.5 mm and you're bound to find a cable that you can use.

It's most often used with camcorders. But not all configurations work correctly. Normally you'll see the audio coming out 
of the red and white lines and the video coming out of yellow. If your cable doesn't work right away, you might want to try 
swapping these around. Sometimes they aren't wired the way you might expect. In most cases you can swap the colors around, and
that'll work. But there are some cables that simply won't work. You'll need a voltmeter to check this.

To confirm that your cable will work, read the resistance between the sleeve and the ground. If you have zero ohms between 
those two points, this cable will not work for the Raspberry Pi. 

Another trick is to press a key when NOOBS is booting to select what video mode you want to be in. 
If you press 1, you will go into HDMI Preferred Mode.
If you press 2, you'll go into HDMI Safe Mode. 
More importantly, if you press 3, you'll go into a Composite PAL.
Or 4, Composite NTSC.

In my own experience, I was using a VGA monitor. And I found that I had to press 4 to get the monitor to actually show what
was going on with the Raspberry Pi. All Raspberry Pis have HDMI available. Be sure to get the right cable for your monitor.

The final option is VNC or Virtual Network Connection, aka a "Headless" connection. Using VNC you can display video from one
computer on another computer over the network.
And again, this is useful for Headless operation, that is, without a monitor.
 Be aware that some applications don't work under VNC, particularly the Scratch programming language and Minecraft. 
 
 So for monitors, you have three options. 
 - Older monitors and a TRRS cable, shown here, 
 - HDMI monitors, such as modern flat panel TVs. You probably already have one in your house. All you'll need is the correct cable to do so. 
 - Your third option, ofcourse, is VNC. And this doesn't require any cable at all. But it does require a bit of configuration.

POWER SUPPLY:
You'll want to be sure to get a 5-volt micro USB connector and 1.2 to 2.5 amps. In this case, bigger is better.
Phone chargers work, but be sure to get a good one. Some cheaper chargers don't deliver the voltage or amperage that they say
that they will.
- If you're going to use your Raspberry Pi for anything sound related, you'll want a shielded power cable with a ferrite bead.
You can recognize these as the small barrel (look in your lenovo charger near usb end) on the end of the cable. This ferrite bead will prevent static from getting into
the audio circuits.
- A single cable will work for just the Raspberry Pi, but if you're going to connect to USB devices, such as webcams or 
hard drives, you'll need a powered USB hub.
Be sure that your hub pulls power from the wall, not the Raspberry Pi. We're trying to provide extra power that the 
Raspberry Pi peripherals can use instead of pulling power from the Raspberry Pi itself. 

Now, you may find that your Raspberry Pi shuts down or behaves oddly, and this is usually a sure sign that you're trying 
to pull too much current through the Raspberry Pi. Again, a passive hub will not help. You'll need to make sure it plugs
into the wall. 

USB hubs are fairly inexpensive, and they usually have about four USB connectors.

One of the last things you're gonna have to round up is an SD card, and these are memory cards. An SD card takes 
the place of a hard drive in the Raspberry Pi. There's a couple of things you'll want to know before purchasing an 
SD card.
- First, you'll need a regular or full-size SD card if you own a Model A or Model B Raspberry Pi.
(Keep in mind, these are the older Raspberry Pis.)
- If you do own a Model A+, B+, or a Raspberry Pi Model 2, you'll want a MicroSD card. They aren't interchangeable.
Obviously the adapter for either one is gonna be a different size. You can buy regular SD cards that have a slot to put 
the MicroSD card in the back of it, kind of a piggyback device.
- And that's what I use so I can swap it back and forth between different Raspberry Pis that I have laying around my house. 
You'll want to buy at least 8 gigabytes, although less might work, and more certainly won't hurt you.

You do want to make sure to get a Class 6 or better. And this has to do with how fast memory can be accessed. If you buy a
Class 2 or 3, you may observe that there are strange things happening when the Raspberry Pi tries to access the memory.

So it's just easier to get yourself a better card to start off with. Don't plan on sharing this SD card with other devices.
When you install Raspberry Pi software on this SD card, you will remove everything else that was on there, including any 
precious photographs you may have stored on there for years. 






