


You'll need an operating system for your Raspberry Pi, and the Raspberry Pi Foundation has very kindly provided something called NOOBS.
NOOBS is a clever acronym for New Out Of the Box Software. It's a software installer built and maintained by the Raspberry Pi 
Foundation and provides an incredibly convenient way to put an operating system on your Raspberry Pi. 


**NOOBS SD Card**
NOOBS comes with six operating systems. If that's not enough, or you want something different than what they have to 
offer, you can go to www.elinux.org/RPi_Distributions, where they keep a complete list of all of the available distributions 
and operating systems that you may wanna play with.


DOwnload Noobs:
https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/noobs/
There are a couple of considerations when making a Noobs versus Noobs Lites decision. 
The first thing you'll want to know about Noobs is that it is a 704 megabyte download. If you're using a 8-gigabyte SD card, this really isn't an issue
You might also want to be aware that some of the OS versions on Noobs can be out of date.
This really isn't a big deal because when you install Noobs, you're given the option to update. Keep in mind though this does 
require an ethernet connection on your Raspberry Pi. 

 Noobs Lite, on the other hand, is only 20 megabytes large, it's just simply an installer, it doesn't actually contain the 
 operating systems. It does require an internet connection, because it has to download all of the operating systems across
 the internet. So, if you have a really, really, really slow internet, you might want to do Noobs, or if you have a 
 Model A, then you'll absolutely have to use the Noobs installer, not the Noobs Lite.


The Raspberry Pi Model A does not have an ethernet connection, so you can't install over the internet. If at all
possible, go with the full version of Noobs. Just Noobs, not Noobs Lite. Most memory cards are able to store that 704 
megabytes, and if you have an internet connection, you're still going to get the most current software.


Building NOOBS on an SD card ManuallYy:
MAC
- put your SD card into the card reader slot on the side of your computer and as soon as you do that, you'll see that
the Macintosh comes up with a card on the desktop
- Now, I'm going to use `Disk Utility` to format that SD card.
- Click your SD Card from the options and then I go over to Erase. I make sure that the format is FAT, MS-DOS (FAT) and I give it some name. I'm gonna 
call it "NOOBS." And then I go down to the button that says "Erase."
- Just drag and drop all the CONTENTS of the NOOB installer files into your sd card directory
voila! we now have a bootable sd card

WINDOWS:
- In explorer, right click sd card -> format -> make sure that the file system is FAT32
- Just drag and drop all the CONTENTS of the NOOB installer files into your sd card directory
voila! we now have a bootable sd card

