

- Now that we're ready to boot up the Raspberry Pi, let's step through some of the different operating sytems that you 
can use with your new toy. 

https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/
Over time, I've noticed that operating systems come and go, some become obsolete, and some are rewritten, especially 
with the release of the Raspberry Pi 2

So the first time that you put NOOBS into your Raspberry Pi, you'll be presented with this screen, and this is the operating 
system chooser. There's a bunch of different operating systems that you can take a look at here.

Let's install Raspbian, most popular
(check it and click install)
It's a version of Debian, one of the most popular Linux distributions and it's also one of the most popular
Raspberry Pi operating system.  It's well-documented so it's a good place to start.
On the boot-up screen, There are nine options, Expand Filesystem, Change User Password, Enable Boot to Desktop/Scratch,  etc
 Right now, let's configure this operating system so that it automatically boots up to the desktop, and here's how to do that.
scroll down to option number three which is Enable Boot to Desktop/Scratch. I'm going to hit return or enter. 
 I'm presented with this screen which is `Choose the boot option`.
 let's Desktop Log in as user 'pi'  (second options)
  
 OpenELEC actually stands for Open Embedded Linux Entertainment Center and it's a home theater setup. 
 Now, OpenELEC also supports SSH which is short for Secure Shell. This is an advanced feature and for the purpose of our 
 demonstration here, you can just simply select the default, do take a note that the default user is root and the default
 password is openelec.
 Things that we could do using OpenELEC on a Raspberry Pi is we can share pictures, we can watch videos, we can play
 music, there are programs that can be installed and then of course there's a system file where you can go over and change 
 your settings, you can look at what files are located on your system, change your profiles, other important things.


We're now looking at RISC OS. I installed this operating system in the same way as we installed Raspbian.
 When you finish the installation for RISC OS, this is what you'll be looking at. I would note that the install for
 RISC OS is significantly faster than installing Raspbian and it seems to run a little bit faster. 
 Let's take a look. First of all, you're getting a web browser with a welcome screen that tells you a little bit about RISC OS. 
 The middle key, the third key on a three button mouse is being used. So for example, if you go to one of the applications
 in the lower right hand corner, and these are applications that are running, if you left-click, you will start the
 application. Sometimes if you right-click, you get a special message or a special feature, but you'll want to be aware
 that you can middle-click and you'll get a third menu.
In order to install additional applications, you'll need to use PackMan or Store and I'm going to show you PackMan.
 Double click it (which is on desktop) and we're going to grab Barrage and unpack.
 - Go to the small disk icon in the lower left hand corner, you'll see we have a bunch of folders that contain applications 
 or library files or programming tools. I'm going to open up the Apps folder, double-click.
 - In the lower left hand corner we have a Games folder and that's where Barrage has appeared, so let's go ahead and 
 launch that by double-clicking on it. And now we have a game running, so let's go ahead and enter the shooting range! \m/
 
 Windows10 OS
 https://blogs.windows.com/buildingapps/2016/02/29/windows-10-iot-core-support-for-raspberry-pi-3/#6XqtWhM3IQSPFFO5.97
 
 
 
